---
published: true
title: 17-11-11-30-Truths-I-Live-By.md
---
## A New Post

Each of us makes a statement in the way we live day-to-day. Many times, these are absent from our Instagram posts or Facebook pages, as they are more subtle and substantial. However, there’s a bravery in practicing our values consistently - even if they seem invisible - while evaluating their validity and even researching possibilities of improvement. 

Life’s dynamic makes everyone’s development both rich and fulfilling, as well as muddy and downright confusing. It's almost like every year presents a new version of yourself. An upgrade - we hope - influenced by learnings, rewards and failures. To make sense of it all, I sat myself down to write my values, or ‘truths’. There were many, and the following are the thirty most significant.

1. Take action over talk
2. Get the job done without a fuss
3. Build confidence over time, not overnight
4. Streamlined morning routines
5. Minimised possessions, and worries
6. Overlook trends or fads
7. Save to invest, invest, invest
8. Control spending habits
9. Negotiate … why not?
10. See ‘no’ as a starting point
11. Take opportunities without hesitation
12. Ask the hard questions
13. Regard asking for help as a sign of strength 
14. Leave situations where not valued
15. Fully listen to advice and let it sink in
16. Let people ‘save face’
17. Lead with compassion
18. Celebrate others’ victories
19. Compete with ourselves, not others
20. Acknowledge and appreciate compliments 
21. Speak up when wronged
22. Refrain from gossiping 
23. P-a-u-s-e 
24. Use both logic and intuition
25. Learned to control emotions
26. Be comfortable being and travelling alone
27. Try fixing or making things 
28. Take care of both mental and physical well-being
29. Seek out challenging, even uncomfortable, situations
30. Test limits to extent comfort zones

Actions don’t just ‘speak louder than words’, they ‘put words to the test’. It’s in action where beliefs can be applied, tested and developed according to real world responses. By doing this exercise, I realised the values I strive to practice everyday. We all have our hard days, or not so graceful days. But reminding ourselves of our daily ‘truths’ can ground our identities when they’ve swayed. And they will. This is why these are here to stay in Internet-land so I can review them when required. Whether you’ve been looking to change your daily ‘truths’, or validate ones you once through odd, I hope these can be of some use. Either way my strong, determined self-willed reader, have fun and see where they can take you.